once the envy of all employees who work
in open-plan offices I would take a king
beaded curtain just so I don't have to
directly observe Carol clipper nails do
it at home Carol what this year one
particular wall has gotten a lot of our
attention I will build a great great
wall on our southern border at a Trump
walk beautiful wall I will build the
greatest wall that you've ever seen they
ever put my name on I want a gorgeous
wall the Trump wall will that be a
beautiful one yes Donald Trump wants to
build a wall on the US Mexican border
and based on his tone he also wants to
that wall the wall is such it's
such a fixture of his speeches of so
popular among his supporters one man
even wore a spandex wall costume one of
his rallies and I mean that's kind of
incredible the only group of people more
excited about barriers are high school
health teachers oh that's right cool
guys and cool girls when you're horny
there is nothing better than a good
dental dam it feels exactly the same it
doesn't it really doesn't
the border wall is one of the few policy
proposals Trump has talked about in
detail so instead of mocking or
dismissing it out of hand tonight let's
take a series proposal by a serious
presidential candidate seriously and
first let's put aside the potential
racism and xenophobia involved here we
can come back to that later and instead
let's focus on the practicality of
whether and how it can actually be done
and let's start with the cost when Trump
first started talking about this he said
it would cost a lot but not a lot a lot
let's say the world costs 4 billion you
know they say 10 billion that means 4
billion if you know what you're doing ok
so so so he's saying he could build a
wall at 40% of what it would cost others
which I would say is an insane magic
trick if I thought his tiny fingers
could wrap all the way around a magic
wand but since then his estimate has
grown the wall is gonna cross 6 or 7
billion was probably eight billion
dollars a wall gets built it's gonna
cost 10 billion dollars to build a wall
okay a lot of money to wall the walls
gonna cost 10 billion dollars maybe 12
depending okay so we've gone from 4 to
12 billion dollars Donald Trump's margin
of error is the entire GDP of Moldova
but still fair enough where we're now at
12 billion dollars but but to truly know
the real cost we're gonna need to know
what the wall is going to be made from
now if only Donald Trump could explain
that to me
like I'm a child you're going to build
the wall what's it going to be made out
of
hey that's a good question lift him up
here bring him up here gonna be made of
hardened concrete and it's gonna be made
out of rebar and steel okay first first
Trump is holding that child less like a
human being and more like a cat he just
gave a bastard but but second second to
be fair rebar and steel okay that is a
clear answer I appreciate that now now
the amount we would need would depend on
the height of the wall unfortunately
Trump has been unclear on that
suggesting numbers ranging from 35 to 90
feet so let's work with his lowest
estimate at a 35 foot tall wall which
Trump has said we would need around a
thousand miles off now according to one
estimator and construction economists
that would cost 10 billion dollars for
the concrete panels and 5 to 6 billion
for steel columns including labor plus
another billion for concrete footing for
the columns and a concrete foundation so
that's at least 16 billion dollars we're
already four billion over his largest
budget and we've only just gotten
started here because those materials are
heavy and you're gonna have to transport
them into many areas that are currently
inaccessible to construction vehicles so
that same expert estimates another two
billion dollars to build roads so that
20 ton trucks can deliver those
materials and that's not even getting
into another 30% or so for engineering
design and management so now we're up to
around twenty five billion dollars
anywhere from two to six times Trump's
estimates but wait because we're still
not done all of that is just building
the wall the Congressional Budget Office
estimated for a similar project that
wall maintenance costs would exceed the
initial construction costs within seven
years so it's a big dumb thing that only
gets more expensive over time it's like
getting a pet walrus you think it's
stupid now what until you learn what a
bucket of sea cucumbers costs
you've not prepared for that but but
whatever the cost is Trump claims he has
got a way to pay for it Mexico is going
to pay for the wall
going to pay for the war Mexico is going
to pay for the wall Mexico is gonna pay
for the wall and they're gonna be happy
about it of course they are of course
that people love it when you make them
pay for they don't want that's why
everyone is so happy when their cable
company bundles together cable internet
and landline that'll come in handy when
I need to call my cell phone because I
can't find it and that's about it but
but he's Mexico going to pay for the
wall because the current Mexican
Treasury secretary has sent Mexico under
no circumstance is going to pay for the
wall that mr. Trump is proposing and two
former Mexican presidents were even
clearer Mexican people we are not going
to pay any single cent for such a stupid
wall as you care I'm not gonna pay for
that part of that clip is the fact that
he even took the extra effort to swear
in English hey this may be my second
language but I want to make absolutely
sure you firs understand it but but when
Trump was asked about these comments he
responded with characteristic diplomacy
the wall just got 10 feet taller believe
me we've got 10 feet tall come on things
don't get bigger just because you're
angry if that were true Alec Baldwin
would be a hundred feet tall by now now
to be fair to be fair here Trump has
thought through how he will get Mexico
to foot the bill we have right now a 58
billion dollar trade deficit with Mexico
that's why the wall gets built by the
way that's why they're gonna pay for it
okay I see I see Mexico will pay because
we have a trade deficit I understand
unfortunately that's literally not how
anything works because well yes we did
buy fifty eight billion dollars more in
goods and services from Mexico than they
did from us last year that money doesn't
belong to the Mexican government it's
earned by Mexican businesses it's not
lying around if some centralized scrooge
mcduck money
labeled dumb Americans money do not
spend on border fence let's put all this
aside and let's say we did find the
money where would we put a border wall
now your instinct says on the border but
even that is actually more difficult
than it sounds and we know this because
in 2006 George W Bush signed the secure
Fence Act which called for the
construction of 700 miles of fencing
along the border a project which
incidentally then senators Barack Obama
and Hillary Clinton voted for which is
terrible although keep in mind that
millions of you voted for Taylor Hicks
in 2006 so we don't be quite so quick to
judge soul Patrol but that fence that
Fitz ran into a lot of problems though
for instance in large stretches of Texas
the border consists of the Rio Grande
and typically you can't build a wall
along the river as a 1970 treaty
prohibits building anything that may
cause obstruction of normal flow of the
river and for that and other reasons
some stretches of the border fence were
built considerably inland and as towns
like Brownsville Texas have learned that
can be a problem
this here is the Rio Grande rivers cuts
all the way you can see it makes a
natural Crescent there this is Mexico
all back here
here's where the walls built so all of
this golf course is now stuck in between
Mexico and this border fence it's true
that golf course was stuck between the
u.s. border fence and Mexico in a space
that like the case of Diablo Pajarito
occurred over isn't really American but
sure as isn't Mexico
and the ridiculousness of this situation
was not lost on the people who played
there you realize when you're golfing
here that the earth in them you're not
really in the United States or Mexico
here I don't care what course you think
it's helping with security no okay
I think that woman just said in two
words what I'm taking 20 minutes to say
in this piece does the fence help no
stupid I look Texas became a real
problem for constructing that fence
because in Texas unlike in other states
there is no federally owned buffer along
the Mexican border meaning the land is
mostly owned by private citizens like
the loop family who owned a ranch in
Texas and discovered that three-quarters
of their land would suddenly be on the
other side of the fence
when Homeland Security asked the loops
to sign away rights to their land for
the fence they said no way I'm not
finding anything at this point nothing
it's just not possible so the government
used the power of eminent domain and
condemned their property Wow and the
loops were not alone hundreds of
property owners were sued by the federal
government so the fence could be built
perhaps the only silver lining here
might be that historically in America
when the federal government takes your
land and treats you terribly you at
least get an offensive football team
named after you so I guess one day we
can all look forward to the Washington
loops it's a sign of respect they're
respecting their heritage why can't you
understand that and the fences damage
didn't stop there because Michael
Chertoff then Secretary of Homeland
Security signed a document giving his
department the authority to waive 36
laws to build the fence including the
Endangered Species Act the Safe Drinking
Water Act and the Native American graves
protection and repatriation Act he even
welded parts of the fence himself
wearing an American Eagle facemask and
he looks like a member of Daft Punk
if Daft Punk played nothing but Lee
Greenwood covers
and that Native American grave claws
came in horrifyingly handy as this
Native American leader explains
fragments of human remains were found in
heavy equipment tracks on the Christian
ranch archaeological site a site now
crossed by barrier barriers and the
border road imagine a bulldozer in your
family graveyard I mean say what you
will but I think imagine a bulldozer in
your family graveyard is definitely the
worst verse of John Lennon's Imagine
it's not my favorite it is not my
favorite and by waiving the protections
for wildlife the fence has posed dangers
to the survival in the u.s. of
everything from Jaguars to pronghorns to
pygmy owls and look how shocked they
look by that fact although although I
will admit they do permanently look like
you've just murdered their entire
families look look Trump might well
argue having a wall is worth all of this
because it will act as a fortress to
stop people and drugs flowing across the
border but let's look at that because
the most recent authoritative estimate
suggests nearly half of the unauthorized
migrants in the u.s. entered legally
through a port of entry like an airport
or a border crossing usually with visas
that they then overstayed a wall can't
stop that it's like wearing a condom to
protect against head lice you could do
that but that's not really how you keep
the thing you're worried about from
happening which is not to say that there
are not some people crossing the border
where a war would be but what a wall
really stopped them what the Border
Patrol says and I've spoken to a lot of
their people is look first of all if you
build a 30-foot wall all its gonna do is
create a market for 31 foot ladders of
course of course that's right and I by
the way remember when you're looking for
a 31 foot ladder avoid Werner climbing a
werner ladder is like doubting yourself
in cooking grease and climbing a pile of
tetanus do yourself a favor and get into
walt ladder and i'm not being paid to
say that i'm just a fan
and a very happy customer and ladders
are not the walls only weakness
watch as Donald Trump inadvertently
stumbles his way into a key realization
so you take precast plank it comes 30
feet along 40 feet along 50 feet long
there's no ladder going over that if
they ever get up there they're in
trouble because there's no way to get
down maybe a rope yeah this may be a
rope yes yes your brilliant plan has
been undone by mankind's third invention
and as for stopping drugs walls and
fences have not posed much of a
challenge to cartels in Mexico police
have discovered a tunnel believed to
have been used to smuggle drugs into the
u.s. using this makeshift cannon they
were shooting packages small packages of
marijuana across the border these men
were actually using a catapult to launch
drugs across the border other smugglers
have kept it a bit simpler than that
they just get somebody with a really
good arm who throws it over the fence
like a football okay okay well we'll say
if they're looking for a new recruit
I know Peyton Manning is currently
between jobs but let's face it for many
people efficacy is beside the point
this wall is about making us feel safer
and here is where the racism and
xenophobia that we put aside at the top
of this piece really needs to be brought
back because while other politicians
have supported barriers at the border
Donald Trump has been uncommonly clear
about who we need to be protected from
when Mexico sends its people they're not
sending their best they're bringing
drugs they're bringing crime they're
rapists and some I assume are good
people
Trump Trump sounds like an angry
villager running through the town square
yelling werewolves Run For Your Lives
though some I assume are good werewolves
but they're here to kill you with maybe
a few exceptions but mostly werewolves
run run
the way werewolves love me and I love
werewolves but they're here to kill all
of us but but about that because while
yes
individual undocumented immigrants have
committed horrible crimes so obviously
have American citizens and in fact
researchers consistently find that
immigrants are less not more crime prone
than their native-born counterparts the
crime rates among immigrants once here
are relatively tiny digits which is
something Donald Trump should frankly
understand given that he has ten of them
attached take these mints kill us this
is to say that the idea of the war is
not still comforting for some people or
as one man who actually lives near the
border puts it this was put up to
illustrate to Joe whoever up in Dubuque
or someplace they see a picture of this
and they're overstuffed buts and an
overstuffed chair looking at a to big TV
think oh yeah that'll stop them well of
course it doesn't this guy is amazing
on the fat cat out of touch
metropolis that is Dubuque Iowa but even
if it does make the people of Dubuque
feel safer given everything we've seen
is it worth it because remember we
calculated earlier that this could
conservatively cost twenty five billion
dollars excluding the cost of both
maintenance and the land under it that
works out to around seventy seven
dollars per person and here is where I
would like to make a counterproposal to
Donald Trump's wall plan if the main
thing is going to get us is a warm sense
of satisfaction inside I suggest instead
of building that wall we use the money
to buy every man woman and child in
America a Parma waffle iron these
beauties retail at $75 apiece so we'd
still have nearly a billion dollars left
over and just to be clear this isn't one
per household this is one per person you
have five people in your family you got
five waffle irons coming your way
not only is this cost-effective unless
you are a really sick this waffle
iron plan would not kill a single pygmy
owl I know what you're thinking John
this is a stupid idea but is it is it
really yes
obviously it is but is it significantly
stupider than Donald Trump's wall
because this waffle iron plan will cost
less it'll do nearly as much to keep out
immigrants and drugs it won't harm our
relationship with our third largest
trading partner if it is racist it's
only toward Belgians and unlike Donald
Trump's wall
this makes king waffles what kind of
country do we want to wake up to one
that spends billions on an impossible
impractical symbol of fear or one that
smells like breakfast
exactly
[Applause]